# Rerun Python examples
The simplest example is [`minimal`](minimal/minimal.py). You may want to start there!

Read more about our examples at <https://www.rerun.io/examples>.

## Setup
First install the Rerun Python SDK with `pip install rerun-sdk` or via [`conda`](https://github.com/conda-forge/rerun-sdk-feedstock).

> Note: Make sure your SDK version matches the code in the examples.
For example, if your SDK version is `0.15.1`, check out the matching tag
for this repository by running `git checkout v0.15.1`.

## Installing the example
Each example is packaged as a regular Python package, with a `pyproject.toml` file specifying its required dependencies. To run an example, it must first be installed.

For example, to install dependencies and run the toy `minimal` example (which doesn't need to download any data) run:

```sh
pip install -e examples/python/minimal
```

**Note**: it is import to install example in editable mode, which is done using the `-e` flag (short for `--editable`).

Once installed, the example can be run as a regular Python module:

```shell
python -m minimal
```

Examples also declare console script, so they can also be run directly:

```shell
minimal
```


## Running the examples
By default, the examples spawn a Rerun Viewer and stream log data to it.

For most examples you can instead save the log data to an `.rrd` file using `plots --save data.rrd`. You can then view that `.rrd` file with `rerun data.rrd`.

(`rerun` is an alias for `python -m rerun`).

NOTE: `.rrd` files do not yet guarantee any backwards or forwards compatibility. One version of Rerun will likely not be able to open an `.rrd` file generated by another Rerun version.

## Running examples with Pixi

The Rerun project makes extensive use of [pixi](https://pixi.sh/latest/) for various developer tasks, and Pixi can be used to run examples as well. For this, you need to install Pixi as per the installation instructions on their website.

Then, install a suitable version of the Rerun SDK in the Pixi environment. For the Rerun examples, the `examples` environment must be used, which is why the following commands all include `-e examples`.

For the released version of the SDK, use:
```shell
pixi run -e examples pip install rerun-sdk==0.15.1
```

**Note**: as explained above, the repository checkout tag must match the installed version.

Alternatively, you can build Rerun from source (requires a Rust installation):
```shell
pixi run -e examples py-build
```

Then, you can run examples with the following command:
```shell
pixi run -e examples minimal
```

## Datasets
Some examples will download a small datasets before they run. They will do so the first time you run the example. The datasets will be added to a subdir called `dataset`, which is in the repo-wide `.gitignore`.

## Contributions welcome
Feel free to open a PR to add a new example!

See [`CONTRIBUTING.md`](../../CONTRIBUTING.md) for details on how to contribute.
