---
title: "Archetypes"
order: 1
---
<!-- DO NOT EDIT! This file was auto-generated by crates/build/re_types_builder/src/codegen/docs/website.rs -->

Archetypes are bundles of components for which the Rerun viewer has first-class
built-in support. See [Entities and Components](../../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/entity-component.md) and
[Visualizers and Overrides](../../concepts/visualization/visualizers-and-overrides.md) for more information.

This page lists all built-in archetypes.

## Geospatial

* [`GeoLineStrings`](archetypes/geo_line_strings.md): Geospatial line strings with positions expressed in [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.io/4326) latitude and longitude (North/East-positive degrees), and optional colors and radii.
* [`GeoPoints`](archetypes/geo_points.md): Geospatial points with positions expressed in [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.io/4326) latitude and longitude (North/East-positive degrees), and optional colors and radii.

## Graph

* [`GraphEdges`](archetypes/graph_edges.md): A list of edges in a graph.
* [`GraphNodes`](archetypes/graph_nodes.md): A list of nodes in a graph with optional labels, colors, etc.

## Image & tensor

* [`DepthImage`](archetypes/depth_image.md): A depth image, i.e. as captured by a depth camera.
* [`EncodedDepthImage`](archetypes/encoded_depth_image.md): A depth image encoded with a codec (e.g. RVL or PNG).
* [`EncodedImage`](archetypes/encoded_image.md): An image encoded as e.g. a JPEG or PNG.
* [`Image`](archetypes/image.md): A monochrome or color image.
* [`SegmentationImage`](archetypes/segmentation_image.md): An image made up of integer [`components.ClassId`](https://rerun.io/docs/reference/types/components/class_id)s.
* [`Tensor`](archetypes/tensor.md): An N-dimensional array of numbers.

## MCAP

* [`McapChannel`](archetypes/mcap_channel.md): A channel within an MCAP file that defines how messages are structured and encoded.
* [`McapMessage`](archetypes/mcap_message.md): The binary payload of a single MCAP message, without metadata.
* [`McapSchema`](archetypes/mcap_schema.md): A schema definition that describes the structure of messages in an MCAP file.
* [`McapStatistics`](archetypes/mcap_statistics.md): Recording-level statistics about an MCAP file, logged as a part of [`archetypes.RecordingInfo`](https://rerun.io/docs/reference/types/archetypes/recording_info).

## Plotting

* [`BarChart`](archetypes/bar_chart.md): A bar chart.
* [`Scalars`](archetypes/scalars.md): One or more double-precision scalar values, e.g. for use for time-series plots.
* [`SeriesLines`](archetypes/series_lines.md): Define the style properties for one or more line series in a chart.
* [`SeriesPoints`](archetypes/series_points.md): Define the style properties for one or more point series (scatter plot) in a chart.

## Spatial 2D

* [`Arrows2D`](archetypes/arrows2d.md): 2D arrows with optional colors, radii, labels, etc.
* [`Boxes2D`](archetypes/boxes2d.md): 2D boxes with half-extents and optional center, colors etc.
* [`LineStrips2D`](archetypes/line_strips2d.md): 2D line strips with positions and optional colors, radii, labels, etc.
* [`Points2D`](archetypes/points2d.md): A 2D point cloud with positions and optional colors, radii, labels, etc.

## Spatial 3D

* [`Arrows3D`](archetypes/arrows3d.md): 3D arrows with optional colors, radii, labels, etc.
* [`Asset3D`](archetypes/asset3d.md): A prepacked 3D asset (`.gltf`, `.glb`, `.obj`, `.stl`, etc.).
* [`Boxes3D`](archetypes/boxes3d.md): 3D boxes with half-extents and optional center, rotations, colors etc.
* [`Capsules3D`](archetypes/capsules3d.md): 3D capsules; cylinders with hemispherical caps.
* [`Cylinders3D`](archetypes/cylinders3d.md): 3D cylinders with flat caps.
* [`Ellipsoids3D`](archetypes/ellipsoids3d.md): 3D ellipsoids or spheres.
* [`InstancePoses3D`](archetypes/instance_poses3d.md): One or more transforms applied on the current entity's transform frame.
* [`LineStrips3D`](archetypes/line_strips3d.md): 3D line strips with positions and optional colors, radii, labels, etc.
* [`Mesh3D`](archetypes/mesh3d.md): A 3D triangle mesh as specified by its per-mesh and per-vertex properties.
* [`Points3D`](archetypes/points3d.md): A 3D point cloud with positions and optional colors, radii, labels, etc.

## Text

* [`TextDocument`](archetypes/text_document.md): A text element intended to be displayed in its own text box.
* [`TextLog`](archetypes/text_log.md): A log entry in a text log, comprised of a text body and its log level.

## Transforms

* [`CoordinateFrame`](archetypes/coordinate_frame.md): Specifies the coordinate frame for an entity.
* [`Pinhole`](archetypes/pinhole.md): Camera perspective projection (a.k.a. intrinsics).
* [`Transform3D`](archetypes/transform3d.md): A transform between two 3D spaces, i.e. a pose.
* [`TransformAxes3D`](archetypes/transform_axes3d.md): A visual representation of a [`archetypes.Transform3D`](https://rerun.io/docs/reference/types/archetypes/transform3d).
* [`ViewCoordinates`](archetypes/view_coordinates.md): How we interpret the coordinate system of an entity/space.

## Video

* [`AssetVideo`](archetypes/asset_video.md): A video binary.
* [`VideoFrameReference`](archetypes/video_frame_reference.md): References a single video frame.
* [`VideoStream`](archetypes/video_stream.md): Video stream consisting of raw video chunks.

## Other

* [`AnnotationContext`](archetypes/annotation_context.md): The annotation context provides additional information on how to display entities.
* [`Clear`](archetypes/clear.md): Empties all the components of an entity.
* [`RecordingInfo`](archetypes/recording_info.md): A list of properties associated with a recording.

