---
title: "Components"
order: 2
---
<!-- DO NOT EDIT! This file was auto-generated by crates/build/re_types_builder/src/codegen/docs/website.rs -->

Components are the fundamental unit of logging in Rerun. This page lists all built-in components.

An entity can only ever contain a single array of any given component type.
If you log the same component several times on an entity, the last value (or array of values) will overwrite the previous.

For more information on the relationship between **archetypes** and **components**, check out the concept page
on [Entities and Components](../../concepts/entity-component.md).


* [`AggregationPolicy`](components/aggregation_policy.md): Policy for aggregation of multiple scalar plot values.
* [`AlbedoFactor`](components/albedo_factor.md): A color multiplier, usually applied to a whole entity, e.g. a mesh.
* [`AnnotationContext`](components/annotation_context.md): The annotation context provides additional information on how to display entities.
* [`AxisLength`](components/axis_length.md): The length of an axis in local units of the space.
* [`Blob`](components/blob.md): A binary blob of data.
* [`ClassId`](components/class_id.md): A 16-bit ID representing a type of semantic class.
* [`ClearIsRecursive`](components/clear_is_recursive.md): Configures how a clear operation should behave - recursive or not.
* [`Color`](components/color.md): An RGBA color with unmultiplied/separate alpha, in sRGB gamma space with linear alpha.
* [`Colormap`](components/colormap.md): Colormap for mapping scalar values within a given range to a color.
* [`DepthMeter`](components/depth_meter.md): The world->depth map scaling factor.
* [`DrawOrder`](components/draw_order.md): Draw order of 2D elements. Higher values are drawn on top of lower values.
* [`EntityPath`](components/entity_path.md): A path to an entity, usually to reference some data that is part of the target entity.
* [`FillMode`](components/fill_mode.md): How a geometric shape is drawn and colored.
* [`FillRatio`](components/fill_ratio.md): How much a primitive fills out the available space.
* [`GammaCorrection`](components/gamma_correction.md): A gamma correction value to be used with a scalar value or color.
* [`GeoLineString`](components/geo_line_string.md): A geospatial line string expressed in [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.io/4326) latitude and longitude (North/East-positive degrees).
* [`GraphEdge`](components/graph_edge.md): An edge in a graph connecting two nodes.
* [`GraphNode`](components/graph_node.md): A string-based ID representing a node in a graph.
* [`GraphType`](components/graph_type.md): Specifies if a graph has directed or undirected edges.
* [`HalfSize2D`](components/half_size2d.md): Half-size (radius) of a 2D box.
* [`HalfSize3D`](components/half_size3d.md): Half-size (radius) of a 3D box.
* [`ImageBuffer`](components/image_buffer.md): A buffer that is known to store image data.
* [`ImageFormat`](components/image_format.md): The metadata describing the contents of a [`components.ImageBuffer`](https://rerun.io/docs/reference/types/components/image_buffer).
* [`ImagePlaneDistance`](components/image_plane_distance.md): The distance from the camera origin to the image plane when the projection is shown in a 3D viewer.
* [`KeypointId`](components/keypoint_id.md): A 16-bit ID representing a type of semantic keypoint within a class.
* [`LatLon`](components/lat_lon.md): A geospatial position expressed in [EPSG:4326](https://epsg.io/4326) latitude and longitude (North/East-positive degrees).
* [`Length`](components/length.md): Length, or one-dimensional size.
* [`LineStrip2D`](components/line_strip2d.md): A line strip in 2D space.
* [`LineStrip3D`](components/line_strip3d.md): A line strip in 3D space.
* [`MagnificationFilter`](components/magnification_filter.md): Filter used when magnifying an image/texture such that a single pixel/texel is displayed as multiple pixels on screen.
* [`MarkerShape`](components/marker_shape.md): The visual appearance of a point in e.g. a 2D plot.
* [`MarkerSize`](components/marker_size.md): Radius of a marker of a point in e.g. a 2D plot, measured in UI points.
* [`MediaType`](components/media_type.md): A standardized media type (RFC2046, formerly known as MIME types), encoded as a string.
* [`Name`](components/name.md): A display name, typically for an entity or a item like a plot series.
* [`Opacity`](components/opacity.md): Degree of transparency ranging from 0.0 (fully transparent) to 1.0 (fully opaque).
* [`PinholeProjection`](components/pinhole_projection.md): Camera projection, from image coordinates to view coordinates.
* [`Plane3D`](components/plane3d.md): An infinite 3D plane represented by a unit normal vector and a distance.
* [`PoseRotationAxisAngle`](components/pose_rotation_axis_angle.md): 3D rotation represented by a rotation around a given axis that doesn't propagate in the transform hierarchy.
* [`PoseRotationQuat`](components/pose_rotation_quat.md): A 3D rotation expressed as a quaternion that doesn't propagate in the transform hierarchy.
* [`PoseScale3D`](components/pose_scale3d.md): A 3D scale factor that doesn't propagate in the transform hierarchy.
* [`PoseTransformMat3x3`](components/pose_transform_mat3x3.md): A 3x3 transformation matrix Matrix that doesn't propagate in the transform hierarchy.
* [`PoseTranslation3D`](components/pose_translation3d.md): A translation vector in 3D space that doesn't propagate in the transform hierarchy.
* [`Position2D`](components/position2d.md): A position in 2D space.
* [`Position3D`](components/position3d.md): A position in 3D space.
* [`Radius`](components/radius.md): The radius of something, e.g. a point.
* [`Range1D`](components/range1d.md): A 1D range, specifying a lower and upper bound.
* [`RecordingUri`](components/recording_uri.md): A recording URI (Uniform Resource Identifier).
* [`Resolution`](components/resolution.md): Pixel resolution width & height, e.g. of a camera sensor.
* [`RotationAxisAngle`](components/rotation_axis_angle.md): 3D rotation represented by a rotation around a given axis.
* [`RotationQuat`](components/rotation_quat.md): A 3D rotation expressed as a quaternion.
* [`Scalar`](components/scalar.md): A scalar value, encoded as a 64-bit floating point.
* [`Scale3D`](components/scale3d.md): A 3D scale factor.
* [`ShowLabels`](components/show_labels.md): Whether the entity's [`components.Text`](https://rerun.io/docs/reference/types/components/text) label is shown.
* [`StrokeWidth`](components/stroke_width.md): The width of a stroke specified in UI points.
* [`TensorData`](components/tensor_data.md): An N-dimensional array of numbers.
* [`TensorDimensionIndexSelection`](components/tensor_dimension_index_selection.md): Specifies a concrete index on a tensor dimension.
* [`TensorHeightDimension`](components/tensor_height_dimension.md): Specifies which dimension to use for height.
* [`TensorWidthDimension`](components/tensor_width_dimension.md): Specifies which dimension to use for width.
* [`Texcoord2D`](components/texcoord2d.md): A 2D texture UV coordinate.
* [`Text`](components/text.md): A string of text, e.g. for labels and text documents.
* [`TextLogLevel`](components/text_log_level.md): The severity level of a text log message.
* [`TransformMat3x3`](components/transform_mat3x3.md): A 3x3 transformation matrix Matrix.
* [`TransformRelation`](components/transform_relation.md): Specifies relation a spatial transform describes.
* [`Translation3D`](components/translation3d.md): A translation vector in 3D space.
* [`TriangleIndices`](components/triangle_indices.md): The three indices of a triangle in a triangle mesh.
* [`ValueRange`](components/value_range.md): Range of expected or valid values, specifying a lower and upper bound.
* [`Vector2D`](components/vector2d.md): A vector in 2D space.
* [`Vector3D`](components/vector3d.md): A vector in 3D space.
* [`VideoTimestamp`](components/video_timestamp.md): Timestamp inside a [`archetypes.AssetVideo`](https://rerun.io/docs/reference/types/archetypes/asset_video).
* [`ViewCoordinates`](components/view_coordinates.md): How we interpret the coordinate system of an entity/space.

