docs/content/overview/resources.md, before:

---
title: Docs Guide
order: 400
---

This page provides an overview of how the Rerun documentation is organized to help you find what you need.

## Overview

High-level introduction to Rerun:

- **[What is Rerun?](what-is-rerun.md)** - Learn about Rerun's data platform for Physical AI
- **[Installing the Viewer](installing-viewer.md)** - Get Rerun installed on your system

## Getting started

Step-by-step guides to get up and running quickly:

- **[Quick Start](../getting-started/quick-start.md)** - Choose your language (Python, Rust, C++) and create your first visualization
- **[Data In](../getting-started/data-in.md)** - Learn how to log data to Rerun from your code
- **[Data Out](../getting-started/data-out.md)** - Query and export data from Rerun recordings
- **[Configure the Viewer](../getting-started/configure-the-viewer.md)** - Customize the visualization to your needs
- **[Troubleshooting](../getting-started/troubleshooting.md)** - Solutions to common issues

## Concepts

Understanding the foundational concepts behind Rerun:

- **[Application Model](../concepts/app-model.md)** - How Rerun applications are structured
- **[Entity Component System](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/entity-component.md)** - Rerun's data model
- **[Entity Paths](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/entity-path.md)** - Organizing your data hierarchically
- **[Spaces and Transforms](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/transforms.md)** - Working with coordinate systems
- **[Timelines](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/timelines.md)** - Managing temporal data
- **[Blueprints](../concepts/visualization/blueprints.md)** - Configuring visualization layouts
- **[Batches](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/batches.md)** - Efficiently logging collections of data
- **[Static Data](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/static.md)** - Data that exists across all timelines
- **[Query Semantics](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/latest-at.md)** - How Rerun resolves data queries
- **[Annotation Context](../concepts/visualization/annotation-context.md)** - Shared styling and labels
- **[Apps and Recordings](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/apps-and-recordings.md)** - Managing application and recording IDs
- **[Visualizers and Overrides](../concepts/visualization/visualizers-and-overrides.md)** - Customizing rendering
- **[Chunks](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/chunks.md)** - Internal storage mechanism (advanced)

## How-to guides

Practical guides for specific tasks and advanced features:

### Logging data
- **[Logging](../howto/logging-and-ingestion.md)** - Advanced logging techniques
- **[Send Columns](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/send-columns.md)** - Efficiently log columnar data
- **[Using Native Loggers](../howto/integrations/integrate-host-loggers.md)** - Integrate with existing logging systems
- **[Short-lived Entities](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/clears.md)** - Handling temporary data

### Visualization
- **[Visualization](../howto/visualization.md)** - Advanced visualization techniques
- **[Configure Viewer Through Code](../getting-started/configure-the-viewer.md#programmatic-blueprints)** - Programmatic viewer configuration
- **[Fixed Window Plots](../howto/visualization/fixed-window-plot.md)** - Creating time-windowed plots

### Data management
- **[DataFrame API](../howto/query-and-transform/get-data-out.md)** - Query recordings programmatically
- **[Get Data Out](../howto/query-and-transform/get-data-out.md)** - Export data from Rerun
- **[MCAP Integration](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/mcap.md)** - Working with MCAP files
- **[Shared Recordings](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/shared-recordings.md)** - Collaborate with recordings

### Integration & deployment
- **[Integrations](../howto/integrations.md)** - Integrate Rerun with other tools
- **[Embed Rerun Viewer](../howto/integrations/embed-web.md)** - Embed the viewer in your application
- **[Jupyter Notebooks](../howto/integrations/embed-notebooks.md)** - Use Rerun in notebooks
- **[Callbacks](../howto/visualization/callbacks.md)** - Respond to viewer events

### Performance & optimization
- **[Limit RAM Usage](../howto/visualization/limit-ram.md)** - Control memory consumption
- **[Optimize Chunks](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/optimize-chunks.md)** - Fine-tune data storage

### Extending Rerun
- **[Extend](../howto/extend.md)** - Add custom types and visualizations

### Examples
- **[ROS2 Nav Turtlebot](../howto/integrations/ros2-nav-turtlebot.md)** - Complete robotics example

## Reference

Detailed API documentation and technical specifications:

- **[Reference Documentation](../reference.md)** - Complete API reference for all supported languages
  - Types (Archetypes, Components, Datatypes)
  - SDKs (Python, Rust, C++)
  - Viewer and CLI commands
  - Migration guides

## Development

Contributing to Rerun:

- **[Developing Rerun](../development.md)** - How to contribute to the Rerun project

## Community

- [Rerun Discord](https://discord.gg/PXtCgFBSmH) - Join the community
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/rerun-io/rerun) - Source code and issue tracking
- [Examples Gallery](https://rerun.io/examples) - See Rerun in action

Commit message:

Refactor getting started to match product layout (#12454)
### Related
RR-3263

### What
* Remove quick-start
This was highly redundant with what we had in data-in / logging and
ingestion. There is no way to provide a true multi language getting
started anymore because different languages have different coverage in
the various projects. Instead pointing people to their objective then
splitting makes the most sense to me.

The content itself doesn't need to much adjustment besides a small
amount of framing.

docs/content/overview/resources.md, after:

---
title: Docs Guide
order: 400
---

This page provides an overview of how the Rerun documentation is organized to help you find what you need.

## Overview

High-level introduction to Rerun:

- **[What is Rerun?](what-is-rerun.md)** - Learn about Rerun's data platform for Physical AI
- **[Installing the Viewer](installing-rerun/viewer.md)** - Get Rerun installed on your system

## Getting started

Step-by-step guides to get up and running quickly:

- **[Log and Ingest](../getting-started/data-in.md)** - Learn how to log data to Rerun from your code
- **[Visualize](../getting-started/configure-the-viewer.md)** - Customize the visualization to your needs
- **[Query and Transform](../getting-started/data-out.md)** - Query and export data from Rerun recordings
- **[Troubleshooting](../overview/installing-rerun/troubleshooting.md)** - Solutions to common issues

## Concepts

Understanding the foundational concepts behind Rerun:

- **[How Does Rerun Work](../concepts/how-does-rerun-work.md)** - How Rerun applications are structured
- **[Entity Component System](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/entity-component.md)** - Rerun's data model
- **[Entity Paths](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/entity-path.md)** - Organizing your data hierarchically
- **[Spaces and Transforms](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/transforms.md)** - Working with coordinate systems
- **[Timelines](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/timelines.md)** - Managing temporal data
- **[Blueprints](../concepts/visualization/blueprints.md)** - Configuring visualization layouts
- **[Batches](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/batches.md)** - Efficiently logging collections of data
- **[Static Data](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/static.md)** - Data that exists across all timelines
- **[Query Semantics](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/latest-at.md)** - How Rerun resolves data queries
- **[Annotation Context](../concepts/visualization/annotation-context.md)** - Shared styling and labels
- **[Apps and Recordings](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/apps-and-recordings.md)** - Managing application and recording IDs
- **[Visualizers and Overrides](../concepts/visualization/visualizers-and-overrides.md)** - Customizing rendering
- **[Chunks](../concepts/logging-and-ingestion/chunks.md)** - Internal storage mechanism (advanced)

## How-to guides

Practical guides for specific tasks and advanced features:

### Logging data
- **[Logging](../howto/logging-and-ingestion.md)** - Advanced logging techniques
- **[Send Columns](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/send-columns.md)** - Efficiently log columnar data
- **[Using Native Loggers](../howto/integrations/integrate-host-loggers.md)** - Integrate with existing logging systems
- **[Short-lived Entities](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/clears.md)** - Handling temporary data

### Visualization
- **[Visualization](../howto/visualization.md)** - Advanced visualization techniques
- **[Configure Viewer Through Code](../getting-started/configure-the-viewer.md#programmatic-blueprints)** - Programmatic viewer configuration
- **[Fixed Window Plots](../howto/visualization/fixed-window-plot.md)** - Creating time-windowed plots

### Data management
- **[DataFrame API](../howto/query-and-transform/get-data-out.md)** - Query recordings programmatically
- **[Get Data Out](../howto/query-and-transform/get-data-out.md)** - Export data from Rerun
- **[MCAP Integration](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/mcap.md)** - Working with MCAP files
- **[Shared Recordings](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/shared-recordings.md)** - Collaborate with recordings

### Integration & deployment
- **[Integrations](../howto/integrations.md)** - Integrate Rerun with other tools
- **[Embed Rerun Viewer](../howto/integrations/embed-web.md)** - Embed the viewer in your application
- **[Jupyter Notebooks](../howto/integrations/embed-notebooks.md)** - Use Rerun in notebooks
- **[Callbacks](../howto/visualization/callbacks.md)** - Respond to viewer events

### Performance & optimization
- **[Limit RAM Usage](../howto/visualization/limit-ram.md)** - Control memory consumption
- **[Optimize Chunks](../howto/logging-and-ingestion/optimize-chunks.md)** - Fine-tune data storage

### Extending Rerun
- **[Extend](../howto/extend.md)** - Add custom types and visualizations

### Examples
- **[ROS2 Nav Turtlebot](../howto/integrations/ros2-nav-turtlebot.md)** - Complete robotics example

## Reference

Detailed API documentation and technical specifications:

- **[Reference Documentation](../reference.md)** - Complete API reference for all supported languages
  - Types (Archetypes, Components, Datatypes)
  - SDKs (Python, Rust, C++)
  - Viewer and CLI commands
  - Migration guides

## Development

Contributing to Rerun:

- **[Developing Rerun](../development.md)** - How to contribute to the Rerun project

## Community

- [Rerun Discord](https://discord.gg/PXtCgFBSmH) - Join the community
- [GitHub Repository](https://github.com/rerun-io/rerun) - Source code and issue tracking
- [Examples Gallery](https://rerun.io/examples) - See Rerun in action
