# Rerun Rust Examples

These are examples of how to use the [`rerun`](https://github.com/rerun-io/rerun/tree/latest/crates/rerun) crate.

## Running the examples

To try out any example in the list that follows, simply run `cargo r -p <example_name>`; e.g. `cargo r -p api_demo`.

By default, the examples spawn a Rerun Viewer and stream log data to it.

You can instead save the log data to an `.rrd` file using `cargo r -p api_demo -- --save data.rrd`. You can then open that `.rrd` file with `rerun data.rrd` or `cargo r -- data.rrd`.

NOTE: `.rrd` files do not yet guarantee any backwards or forwards compatibility. One version of Rerun will likely not be able to open an `.rrd` file generated by another Rerun version.

### Additional settings

Most examples come with a set of predefined Rerun flags and optionally a number of example-specific flags.  
Use e.g. `cargo r -p api_demo -- --help` for a detailed listing.

The predefined Rerun flags go as follow and are all mutually exclusive:
- `--spawn`: start a viewer and feed it data in real-time (default behavior)
- `--save <SAVE>`: saves the data to an rrd file rather than visualizing it immediately
- `--connect [<CONNECT>]`: connects and sends the logged data to a remote Rerun viewer
- `--serve`: connects and sends the data to a web-based Rerun viewer.

## Datasets

Some examples require small datasets to be downloaded before they run.  
These datasets can be downloaded by running the homonymous python examples (each example that requires it will tell you how to).

The datasets will be added to a subdir called `dataset`, which is in the repo-wide `.gitignore`.

## Examples

### [`minimal`](minimal)

A minimal example, showing how to log a point cloud.

### [`api_demo`](api_demo)

An amalgamation of various usages of the API with synthetic "data" without any particular focus.

It demonstrates a lot of different aspects of the Rerun API.

### [`objectron`](objectron)

Demonstrates how to log:
* Points
* Images
* Camera extrinsics (rigid transform)
* Camera intrinsics (pinhole transform)

### [`raw_mesh`](raw_mesh)

Reads a GLTF mesh file and logs it to Rerun, preserving the transform hierarchy of the GLTF file.

Demonstrates how to log:
* Triangle meshes
* Rigid transforms

### [`dna`](dna)

This is what you'll build when following our [Getting Started guide](https://www.rerun.io/docs/getting-started/logging-rust).
