docs/content/reference/types/views/dataframe_view.md, before:

---
title: "DataframeView"
---
<!-- DO NOT EDIT! This file was auto-generated by crates/build/re_types_builder/src/codegen/docs/website.rs -->

⚠️ **This type is _unstable_ and may change significantly in a way that the data won't be backwards compatible.**
A view to display any data in a tabular form.

Any data from the store can be shown, using a flexibly, user-configurable query.

## Properties

### `query`
Query of the dataframe.

* `timeline`: The timeline for this query.
* `filter_by_range`: If provided, only rows whose timestamp is within this range will be shown.
* `filter_is_not_null`: If provided, only show rows which contains a logged event for the specified component.
* `apply_latest_at`: Should empty cells be filled with latest-at queries?
* `select`: Selected columns. If unset, all columns are selected.

## API reference links
 * 🐍 [Python API docs for `DataframeView`](https://ref.rerun.io/docs/python/stable/common/blueprint_views#rerun.blueprint.views.DataframeView)

## Example

### Use a blueprint to customize a DataframeView.

snippet: views/dataframe

<picture data-inline-viewer="snippets/views/dataframe">
  <source media="(max-width: 480px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/480w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 768px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/768w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1024px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/1024w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1200px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/1200w.png">
  <img src="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/full.png">
</picture>


## Visualized archetypes

Any data can be displayed by the Dataframe view.

Commit message:

remove dataframe-view, add log-blueprint-from-rust-or-cpp.md, move things around

docs/content/reference/types/views/dataframe_view.md, after:

---
title: "DataframeView"
---
<!-- DO NOT EDIT! This file was auto-generated by crates/build/re_types_builder/src/codegen/docs/website.rs -->

⚠️ **This type is _unstable_ and may change significantly in a way that the data won't be backwards compatible.**
A view to display any data in a tabular form.

Any data from the store can be shown, using a flexible, user-configurable query.

See [Dataframe queries](https://rerun.io/docs/concepts/query-and-transform/dataframe-query?speculative-link) to learn more about the query model.

## Properties

### `query`
Query of the dataframe.

* `timeline`: The timeline for this query.
* `filter_by_range`: If provided, only rows whose timestamp is within this range will be shown.
* `filter_is_not_null`: If provided, only show rows which contains a logged event for the specified component.
* `apply_latest_at`: Should empty cells be filled with latest-at queries?
* `select`: Selected columns. If unset, all columns are selected.

## API reference links
 * 🐍 [Python API docs for `DataframeView`](https://ref.rerun.io/docs/python/stable/common/blueprint_views#rerun.blueprint.views.DataframeView)

## Example

### Use a blueprint to customize a DataframeView.

snippet: views/dataframe

<picture data-inline-viewer="snippets/views/dataframe">
  <source media="(max-width: 480px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/480w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 768px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/768w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1024px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/1024w.png">
  <source media="(max-width: 1200px)" srcset="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/1200w.png">
  <img src="https://static.rerun.io/dataframe_view/f89ae330b04baaa9b7576765dce37b5d4e7cef4e/full.png">
</picture>


## Visualized archetypes

Any data can be displayed by the Dataframe view.
